Welcome back the beauty of what we just learned in Treach reversal which was of an And we're visiting
every node is that it's the same as in graph traversal because trees are just simply a type of graph
so using the same technique instead of using left and right properties perhaps there's 10 children.
What we can do the same thing using death for search and breadth first search and this is really powerful
right because graphs are used to model real life models such as a recommendation engine an Amazon.
We can now see what type of items are perhaps related or are the closest relation to the last book that
we bought.
And in that case they would use something like breath for a search or on Facebook to see what type of
friend requests I should be recommended.
If I have a connection on Linked-In perhaps I might use death for a search to see what degree of connection
I have with that.
Really important SEO.
We use deafer search and these are the bases of how peer to peer networks work how Google Maps works.
Right.
Which is really really powerful and I have a nice visual here.
I have our visual.
I'll go here.
Our good friend and they have a death for a search and I made this little graph and we can traverse
now using actual Louis to breath for a search first and we'll start off with zero.
So I'm going to enter zero in here and see how death research would work.
We check all the closest Nodes 1 3 4 5 6 and then we start with 1.
Does it have any children.
Yep 2 7 and 8.
And then we go next in line 3.
What about 4.
What about 5.
What about 6.
They don't have any children.
OK let's go.
Keep going down to the next place that has Shulgin and we traverse the graph as you can see starting
with our closest neighbors and then going further and further out with a depth first search.
Let's say we're starting at zero.
And I hit go we go to one then to then 7 and then we're going to keep going deeper 8.
We're going to go to nine then 10.
There's no more nodes.
So we're going to go all the way back and go to the next and the list that is 3 and 4 then 5 and 6.
So just by looking at this you might see what I meant when I gave you the information at the beginning
of this section that is breadth first search is usually good for shortest path.
That is what's the closest to our node.
What are the most related items on Amazon.
Who are our closest friends on Facebook or closest connections on Linked-In versus depth first search
which is really good to see if something exists.
With deafer search we're able to go really deep into a graph fairly fast then breath.
First search that might cost a bit of extra memory.
Let's talk about these two algorithms in more detail when it comes to graphs.